My plan is to create a Real Time Strategy game that both builds on classic RTS games that had a greater emphasis on resource collection and base building as well as to add new concepts from the city builder and grand strategy genres. To be honest, I envision this as a sort of combination of Banished and Rise of Nations. I've been making games another other software in pure C++ for quite some time and have finally been convinced to switch to Unreal for a big project such as this.

To sum my gameplay aspirations up in a few bullet points:
* There are not unit 'types' but unspecific '[[Citizens]]' which have inherent characteristics and temporary modifiers. They can be outfitted with different [[Tools]] to help perform different civilian and military [[Tasks]] and [[Jobs]].
* [[Resources]] must be physically moved around the battlefield and around civilian centers by people or [[Vehicles]]. There is no abstract stockpile, resources appear in when harvested. Front- and back line logistics plays an important role in the game.
* Units need some basic necessities just to [[Health|live]] i.e. food and shelter, they also consume ammunition which must be supplied to ongoing battles by transports that can be sabotaged or stolen.
* [[Technology|Technological advancement]] without researching technologies. You should be able to steer your nation through an ancient age to the medieval or even industrial era i.e. WW1, but without explicitly have to research technologies. Rather, the gatekeeper of progress is the increasingly advanced [[Infrastructure]] and capital requirements to produce and maintain more sophisticated products.
* Unbalanced gameplay, where the focus is not on straightforward matches or e-sports like competition but rather on creating the story of your nation. Depending on [[Gamemodes|gamemode]] different starting conditions may steer your nation in different ways or make certain paths harder. (i.e. No two nations in EU4 have exactly the same stats in 1444)
* Likewise, matches will probably be pretty long, and a game (single or multiplayer, but depending on gamemode) is unlikely to be completed in a single session.
* Modular [[Building]], where you can create different types of buildings by zoning areas or putting basic shapes together and choosing a primary building material. Later on these buildings can be stocked with equipment (retooled) and possibly supplied with [[Infrastructure|utilities]] to change their purpose. Civilians garrison in buildings to perform work.
* Basic [[Terraforming]], the ability to dig trenches, create mounds, fell forests, make roads and tracks.
* [[Nationality]] (race?) system where each player starts off with a fictional nationality/race that all their starting civilians have and entirely belong to. Enemy nations don't [[Diplomacy|surrender]] all at once and disappear, rather you need to choose to either kill, annex, or assimilate their population. Assimilated pops will work less hard or possibly sabotage your nation unless they are bred out or sufficiently satisfied. 
* [[Formations|Army builder system]], that makes training units as easy as a conventional RTS. Create equipment templates for units and apply them instantly either randomly or based on demographic criteria. Then create army templates that have a certain amount of each unit (equipment template) and assign a desired formation and issue commands to the army as a whole for when you don't want to micromanage each unit. 
* Co-op play, where multiple people control a single nation should be possible 

I (discord/gumzone.) will probably be the only programmer and game designer on this project, but I do have friends that may help make models for the game or supply ideas. More help will probably need to be recruited later. Not sure about monetization, but one idea we had was making the ancient->medieval game free and then selling the medieval -> post-industrial version as the full game.
